# Your integration journey

For a general overview and step-by-step guide to the integration process for all **Mews Open API** integrations, see [Your journey with Mews](https://mews-systems.gitbook.io/open-api/your-journey). The content below focuses specifically on developing a **Mews Channel Manager API** integration.

## Setting up the integration

Follow these steps:

1. Obtain your **Client Token** from Mews, this will identify you as a Mews client in requests to the Mews side API. The token is the same for all connected properties, but different for each environment (e.g. Test or Production).

2. Set up Channel Manager side endpoints to use the same **Client Token**, this will identify Mews as a client of your system in requests to the Channel Manager side API. The token can be the same as on the Mews side, or different, but using the same token is recommended for simplicity.

3. Provide Mews with the **endpoint URLs** for supported Channel Manager API operations.

> **Channel Manager side API endpoints**: When implementing the Channel Manager side API, you can provide the endpoint URLs to Mews one by one. Production versions of the URLs can be provided after certification is completed, if desired.

## Connecting a property

Follow these steps:

1. When a property on the Mews system wishes to be connected with a channel manager using the **Mews Channel Manager API**, the connection should first be created in Mews, either by the property themselves or by Mews Support.
   * When a connection is created in Mews, all Spaces and Rates get assigned default mapping codes automatically. If the channel manager requires its own mapping codes, they need to be passed as part of this step as the Mews default mapping codes can easily be altered by the property or by Mews Support.

2. Obtain the **Connection Token**, which is generated by the Mews system:
   * You can fetch all connections via the [Get properties](../mews-operations/configuration.md#get-properties) API operation and from that list you will know which connection is new to you.
   * You can ask the property or Mews Support for the `connectionToken` when setting up the connection on your side.

3. Obtain the connection configuration:
   * You can fetch the configuration of a connection via API operation [Get configuration](../mews-operations/configuration.md#get-configuration).
   * You can ask the property or Mews Support for the configuration details.

4. Configure the connection on the channel manager system.

> **Test environment configurations**: In the case of the [Test Environment](../mews-operations/README.md#test-environment), Mews integration specialists will take care of these requests.

## Getting certified

Once you have finished building and testing your integration, you need to get your integration certified by Mews, so it can be moved to the Production environment. Complete the [certification form](https://mews.typeform.com/to/ehTUz7) to kick off the certification process.
The following pages explain the process in more detail. You can find additional information in the [Mews Help Center](https://help.mews.com), e.g. [Channel API Certification: What to expect](https://help.mews.com/s/article/channel-api-certification-what-to-expect?language=en_US).

* [Certification](certification.md)
* [Certification tests](certification-tests.md)
