## Integration Process

### Setting up the integration

1. Obtain **Client Token** from Mews, this will identify the channel manager as a Mews client in requests to the Mews side API.
The token is the same for all connected properties, but different for each environment.

2. Provide Channel Manager side **Client Token** to Mews, which will identify Mews as a client of the channel manager in requests to the Channel Manager side API.
It can be the same token as used for the Mews side, or a different one - using the same token is recommended for simplicity.

3. Provide endpoint URLs for supported Channel Manager API operations.
   * When implementing the Channel Manager side API, you can provide the endpoint URLs one by one.
   * Production versions of the URLs can be provided after certification is completed, if desired.

### Connecting a property

1. When a property on the Mews system wishes to be connected with a channel manager using the Mews Channel Manager API, the connection should first be created in Mews, either by the property themselves or by Mews Support.
   * When a connection is created in Mews, all Spaces and Rates get assigned default mapping codes automatically.
   If the channel manager requires its own mapping codes, they need to be passed as part of this step as the Mews default mapping codes can easily be altered by the property or by Mews Support.

2. Obtain the **Connection Token** generated by Mews
   * You can fetch all connections via the [Get Properties](../mews-operations/configuration.md#get-properties) API operation and from that list you will know which connection is new to you.
   * You can ask the property or Mews Support for the `connectionToken` when setting up the connection on your side.

3. Obtain connection configuration
   * You can fetch the configuration of a connection via [Get Configuration](../mews-operations/configuration.md#get-configuration) API operation.
   * You can ask the property or Mews Support for the configuration details.

4. Configure the connection on the channel manager system.

> Note: In the case of the [Test Environment](../mews-operations/README.md#test-environment), Mews integration specialists will take care of these requests.

### Certification

Once development against the API is completed, Mews needs to be sure it is developed according to specification before the integration can be moved to the production environment.
This is the purpose of the certification process. During this process, a series of tests will be performed to check that all requests contain all required elements, errors are handled properly, etc.
See [Certification](../certification/README.md).
